---
layout: post
title: Book Review - Three Body Problem by Cixin Liu
date: 2024-04-01 00:01:00
description: REHYDRATE!
tags: formatting code
categories: writing, personal, book review
pseudocode: true
---

4/5

Inventive, wildly imaginative and clever. This is heady sci fi that doesn’t shy away from the technical or its dizzying philosophical implications.

The characters are mere bystanders (or bugs), while the story itself takes center stage and unfolds over decades with the Chinese cultural revolution as a backdrop to the early chapters, and later the scientific and military establishments response to a global threat.

It’s a fascinating take on the alien invasion genre. Written in elegant prose but often plagued by the iciness characterized by sci fi (think long passages of exposition and theories).

I enjoyed it immensely nevertheless and will be diving into the rest of the trilogy.

Some highlights:

“Then your life has been fortunate. The world is full of unpredictable factors, yet you have never faced a crisis.”

“They seemed to express a kind of passionate anger and desperation born out of a frustrated desire to express something.”

“Have you ever considered certain ultimate philosophical questions? For examples, where does man come from? Where does man go? Where does the universe come from?”
“Nope.”
“Never?”
“Never.”

“Emptiness is not nothingness. Emptiness is a type of existence. You must use this existential emptiness to fill yourself.”

“Her heart was like ashes from which the flame of love could no longer be lit.”

“From a two or three dimensional perspective, the particle begins to show internal structure. From a four dimensional perspective, a fundamental particle is an immense world.”

“The Trisolarans who deemed the humans bugs seemed to have forgotten one fact: the bugs have never been truly defeated.”
